Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbiville.
January the 16th, 1991 is an evening that few of us will ever forget.
Maybe you've forgotten the exact date, but certainly not the event.
We were glued to our televisions, from before dinner time to dawn the next morning and beyond.
We watched reporters tell us their stories through gas masks.
And soon missiles called Patriot and Scud would become part of our everyday conversation.
That night, which was actually 2.38 the next morning in Kuwait, U.S.
warplanes attacked Baghdad, Kuwait, and other military targets of Iraq.
Operation Desert Shield had become Operation Desert Storm.
Randy South was a mortarman with 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marines, a long, long way from home.
Randy, welcome.
Thank you.
Talk a little bit about that.
You were actually on the ground deployed long before the media knew it and had told us back in the United States before the air war started on that morning of January the 17th in Iraq.
Right.
We had gotten there like two days before the air war started.
But we were deployed before that for a contingency anywhere else in the world.
So they kept us there because of the Philippines.
It was acting up a little bit of that area.
And then two days before the war started, they moved us into Iraq and then like spent a night there.
And then the next day and then that night, that's when the air war started.
Indeed.
Let's go back and talk about when you first enlisted in 1987.
You were actually too young to get in on your own, right?
I was 17 years old and my mother and father had to sign for me to get into the Marine Corps.
As you know, because I wasn't an adult yet, but I could sign up.
But they had to sign for me saying that that was okay to do that.
Why did you want to go that route?
You know, I really don't know.
I just, I wasn't really ready for college yet, and I had a friend that went into the Marine Corps, and I was just kind of looking around, and I went into the Marine Corps office here in College Station, started talking to them a little bit, and next thing I know, I signed up and went.
Now, for training, you were sent off to Hawaii, which was, I guess, a better place to be than where you were about to be, but talk a little bit about your training before you were deployed.
Before we deployed, I mean, every year we went on a six-month deployment, you know, to Okinawa, Japan, and then from there you maybe went to the Philippines, and you just, you're also the contingency.
You know, you were supposed to be the first ones to go somewhere, while the other guys stateside, you know, you were the first ones to have to go.
It didn't work out that way with Saudi Arabia.
And with the Iraq situation, it was kind of different.
But we performed a lot of gas exercises when we knew that Iraq may have been trying, because he did use gas a lot.
So we were practicing nuclear, biological, clinical warfare quite a bit, which is something we did.
You know, we did it before this thing had broke out.
We did it quite a bit, but not as hard as we did it when we knew that we may have a chance to go to Iraq.
Right, right.
And then you were deployed, and you had been trained well, and it was tough training, especially training for...
biological type warfare.
Yeah, it's very difficult to fight.
The gear you wear is very cumbersome.
Your vision is limited.
It's very hot in those gears.
I mean, you know, you will actually, you know, friends who are really good friends start to get after each other a little bit because it's just so you can't move very well.
It's hard to fire your weapon, and it's a difficult way to fight.
You know, you'd rather not fight in a chemical environment if you had to, but
We were prepared for it and we could do it, but it's very difficult.
We talked when we were talking earlier about the communication over there and you were able to communicate with your family back home and I want you to tell the story about
The day before the air battle began, you didn't really know that it was going to begin that day.
But you were talking to your dad.
Randy's dad, by the way, is Dave South.
Everybody knows is the very familiar voice of Texas A&M Athletics.
You were talking to your dad, actually, the day before the air war started to talk a little bit about that and the consternation it caused him.
Right.
When we had got there, they had MCI and AT&T had set up these huge phone tents.
And it was...
It was kind of unique in that, you know, in the rear bases, this is the way it was set up.
So you could call home and, you know, talk to your family like that.
They actually cut it off after the war started.
You know, those phones were cut off.
They didn't have any communication allowed back just in case somebody was monitoring or said something wrong.
But...
I had called him the day before the airway started and I had talked to him a little bit on the phone.
And building up to that, you know, the anxiety before you go is the hardest part, the anxiety.
And then when I called him when I got there, I told him everything's fine, you know, this is where I'm supposed to be.
I feel comfortable with being here and everything's going to be all right.
Don't worry about anything you hear.
You'll hear from me again.
And then that night the air war broke out.
Well, he thought I knew something, and I really didn't.
I was just trying to comfort them.
Well, then the air war broke out, so they're thinking, well, he must have known something, and now it's all broke out, and he just didn't want to tell us.
So they were on their heels a little bit until I was able to converse with them again and tell them.
So you all are deployed, and you meet up with some other troops, and I think they were, or you all were joking that you're waiting for the 2nd and 3rd to get there before you start this thing?
Right.
I was in 2nd Battalion, 3rd Marines, and we were deployed.
Our sister units were 1st Battalion, 3rd Marines, and 3rd Battalion, 3rd Marines, and they were already in Iraq.
Well, then when we got there, you know, the joke was, you know, because the war started right after that, you know, they waited to start it before we got here.
know so everything could be handled correctly and they you know because they've been sitting over there for six months in the hot desert when i got there was more a cool time it was uh you know not as hot as the summer is it was like in february you know january february in that area so it wasn't as bad you know we had we had it pretty good actually because we stayed in okinawa with the comforts of you know being able to you know do anything you want to do you know eat sleep watch watch movies whatever you know without having to be in the field and then when we got there
It was just kind of a joke, a running joke, just messing with them a little bit.
All in good fun.
A lot of your job with the 3rd Marines was involved in POWs, collecting POWs.
Talk about that aspect of it and the kind of people these POWs were.
Right.
When we got into the action and stuff like that, we started taking on so many POWs, and we were using a lot of psychological type warfare on them, dropping pamphlets on them, which you'll have some here in the show.
And the type of troops that were on the front line had been bombed for like 30 days straight from the air.
And some of them were 16 years old.
Some of them looked like they were 60 years old.
And these were guys they just threw out there, you know, like cannon fodder just to slow stuff down.
And they weren't motivated to fight.
They weren't motivated to be there.
These were just common people, not really trained that well.
And, you know, you started kind of having compassion for them, you know, because you could tell they did not want to be there.
And we took on so many.
that we did have to serve other billets.
I mean, I had to drive a truck with, you know, I never really have driven any military vehicle, really.
And we were having to drive trucks to take them back to POW camps, and just, you know, because we took on so many.
I mean, they were coming up to you.
It was almost, we were mixed in with them.
Most of the time, you keep your POWs at a distance.
Well, you know, you'd find this crammed in there with them, sitting there with a rifle, but, you know, mixed all in with them.
You know, it was just, we had so many, and you could tell they just, they just weren't going to fight, and they just wanted out of it.
And so we took them back to camps and fed them, and, you know, they much more enjoyed that where we were at than out there just getting bombarded all day long with, you know, our airplanes.
It was just pretty bad on them.
Yeah.
You got into a conversational relationship with a fellow named Ali.
Talk about Ali.
We just started talking.
You know, he made a gesture, you know, this gesture, you know, about do I have a smoke?
And I said no.
And then I found him one and gave him one, and he said, what is your name?
And I told him, I said, what's your name?
And he spoke perfectly.
He looks like we are now, you know, a little bit of an accent.
And I asked him, how long have you been in the Army?
And he asked me what month this was.
And I told him, he said, maybe two months, three months.
I said, I'm not really sure.
And I said, are you in the reserves?
And he's like, he didn't know what that meant.
He said, I'm not sure what you mean.
I said, well, why'd you join?
He said, I didn't.
You know, they came to my house and they said, you know, pack your stuff, you're going.
And if you don't, we'll gouge your wife's eyes out.
He made this gesture.
And then you realize they're ruled by fear.
And he kept saying to me, you know, he would say, you know, this is not between Ali and Randy.
This is Bush and Saddam, and he would do this.
And, you know, just a common guy, just thrown out there to the wolves, you know, and, you know, he was just a normal guy.
He didn't want to fight, didn't believe they needed to be in Kuwait, and wanted to go home and see his family.
Were they scared?
I know you told me about an incident where some drones flew over and it kind of freaked them out, right?
Well, because, you know, that 30 days of bombarding, and one time I read a diary off an Iraqi lieutenant officer, and he was talking about how every day, it was almost every day after the air war had started,
how they were getting bombed just every day.
I mean, it would start off, you know, January 15th.
We've got, you know, today, aerial attacks.
16th, you know, nighttime attacks.
And it just never quit.
And, you know, I think that just demoralized them to the point that, you know, they were just scared to death.
So we were collecting them one day.
And a drone flew over.
The drones, they take the pictures of everything and try to take it back and then they analyze it and they send troops over there or send planes over there or salvos from a battleship over there to hit that area.
And when the drone flew over, every one of them hit the deck.
You know, they thought that was, you know, they were fixing to get bombed again.
And, you know, we just realized we looked up there now, it's a drone.
We just picked him up and put him in the truck and took him back.
But they were frightened to death of any kind of air support that came over him.
Because they had no air cover for them at all.
We had air superiority and it just changed the whole war right there.
Let's take a look at some photographs that you brought back from the Persian Gulf.
Okay.
And I've sort of put them up here on, sort of talk about those as we're looking at them on the screen.
The top left, that's a young Randy South, right?
Yeah, that was a young man then.
That's actually, the top left one, that's actually a flag that a Kuwait drove by and had
He was in a civilian car and he came by and he threw us that flag thanking us for liberating Kuwait.
He threw it at us and we just kept it.
And the bottom left, that's actually a POW camp.
Those are all POWs lined up in single file and they're in the green.
And we're just marching them in there and they're getting, you know, each one of them is getting searched again and then they're going to take them in there and they're going to feed them.
So those are the POWs that are sort of crouched down outside the transport vehicle that I guess you had just driven, right?
Right, and that's just, I mean, that's not even a fraction of them.
You know, it looked like, you know, an Aggie football game at some time.
You know, all the people coming in, I mean, that's how it looked.
Just so many of them.
And then the top right one, that's an RPG I found.
There's weapons laying all over the desert.
Land mines laying all over the desert.
You had to kind of watch where you walked.
And, you know, AK-47s, I mean, just stacks of them, you know, just hundreds of them and hundreds of RPGs.
The bottom right one, I don't know if you saw or not, that was the oil wells that they were capping as they left Kuwait, and they were blowing them up.
I see.
And then, you know, they were just going to ruin all of Kuwait's oil.
If they can't have it, nobody can.
And then, actually, on our way back after the war was over, I think it was Red Adair Group, they were over there already fixing those.
I mean, after the war was over, maybe a day, you know, we started coming back to our base in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia, and they are already capping those oil wells.
It was pretty fast how they got out there.
It's getting back to your being on the ground in the Persian Gulf and
I know you're going to show us some Iraqi equipment, including a gas mask, but you had your own gas mask and you were trained in this.
But there were a lot of rumors that you had to fight off about when to use it.
Is it coming now?
There were some false alarms.
Talk about that aspect of what you had to deal with.
On the first night when they came in and told us, well, second night on ground when the air war started, they came in and opened up our tent and they said, you know, we're bombing Iraq.
So we're all like, okay.
Well, then about 30 minutes later, somebody comes running through there yelling, gas, gas, gas.
That's the universal warning to don your gas mask.
And at this time, we're so far away from the front line.
I mean, we're not even on the front line.
We're like deep into Saudi Arabia.
And we're thinking, wow, he's already launched these things this far.
I mean, how does that happen?
And then so we all put our gas mask on.
And then it was a scuttlebutt, which is a rumor.
That's what the Marine Corps calls a rumor.
And somebody just got the wrong word.
So there was no gas launch status at that time.
But it got cold at night in the desert, really cold, and we were dressed up in desert gear.
So one time we just took our chemical suits out because we knew how hot they were when we were training and put those on, and that kept us warm.
Some guys, and this is actually true, some guys at night, everybody carries a body bag.
You know, I carry one for myself.
That way if I get hit, you know, you look on my pack, there's my body bag.
You put me in it and send me home.
That's just you carry it, you know.
Sure.
And some guys would sleep in those things.
I never could do it.
I just didn't want to sleep in my body bag because it was cold.
And sometimes you look over and they're zipped up in their body bag, just kind of laying in there.
That's what they're going to use.
I said, no, I'm not going to do that.
You want anybody to have the idea that that should be a permanent type of thing.
They're using it like a sleeping bag, you know, what they're using it for.
I was like, no, I'm not using my body bag.
Oh, my goodness.
You talked about taking some resistance, some artillery resistance, but the kind of resistance you took was pretty much hit and miss on the part of the Iraqis.
They had no forward observer.
Talk about that.
An artillery piece and a mortar piece, they have what is called a forward observer.
He is the eyes of the weapon because that weapon does not see what it shoots.
So you have a guy out there with binoculars and a radio and a compass, and he's looking around with his map, and he's finding targets, and he's calling it back to them, and they'll shoot it.
Well, Iraq didn't have any forward observers.
They didn't have any guys that far up.
So they would bring their artillery pieces out, and they would just, you know, charge them up, you know, full charge, and then they'd launch it and just hope they hit something, a lot like the Scud.
And the Scud did do some damage, but it's not a pinpoint weapon.
It just goes up there and floats around in the atmosphere and lands, you know, like the buzz bombs in World War II.
They just...
knew how far it was, and they engineered it to land on the continent of England.
Same thing.
I mean, they would shoot their scuds and land like that, and they would shoot their artillery just blindly.
And what would happen was is we had air superiority, so they're flying around at nighttime.
They'll see a flash in an area that they know we're not in.
The planes would go down, and they would hit that area where they saw that muzzle flash.
We had counter-artillery batteries who had a radar, so when it came over, it would pick up that trajectory.
And then they would relay it to their guns and they would fire right back on that position.
So, I mean, any time they did it, they lost that gun because they would get immediately attacked and they would take out that gun that shot at us.
Some of them did land close to us.
It's a, you know, an artillery shell has a, I think it was,
150-meter effective radius, which means not to kill, but maybe maim you or hit you, because you don't have to kill somebody to make them not fight.
You can hit their lay, you can do little things like that to make them not able to run, and they're not able to fight anymore.
But none of them, I don't think we suffered one casualty from that.
Most of our casualties actually were friendly fire, and that's the bad thing.
But we had very, I don't think we had any kills by the Iraqis on our unit, personally.
You went to the Persian Gulf as a mortar man.
You were trained that way, but then eventually you were trained as a forward observer yourself.
That sounds like a dangerous job.
Yeah, I mean, you know, you go out with the line companies.
You know, you're out there with the line company as the infantry soldier, you know, the rifleman.
And, you know, you have the radio and you're always with the officer or you're with the air officers.
I mean, you kind of hang out with them because all line companies also have an air officer who calls in plane support because he knows how to talk to the air officers, you know, the pilots, I should say.
And so sometimes you maybe shoot smoke out and then they would call in the bird and say, okay, you see the white smoke, you know, the red smoke, whatever, that's where he wants you to hit.
You're on the front with everybody else, you know, but, I mean, any place out there, I mean, is dangerous because, I mean, you want to take out somebody's artillery even though they're further back than the line company because
they can make your life miserable you want to take out the mortars because they can make your life miserable so uh the lines do have it no line companies do have it uh you know it's a lot more dangerous but you know out there i mean everybody's free game it's it's dangerous for everybody you talked about the leaflets that were that were dropped uh to try to i guess uh sway the the iraqis what was going on and you brought some back and we've got some here
These are some of the few that you have.
Talk a little bit about those.
Top left.
Now, these were actually, I don't know if the camera can pick it up, but these were sort of sealed in plastic, and they were dropped from the planes.
Yeah, they were actually not sealed in plastic.
They were paper.
I sealed them just to protect them out with a laminate.
But, yeah, they would drop those just...
in these capsules that would just open up and just blow this litter all over the place.
And you were trying to get onto their troops.
One, you had troops that hadn't been fed in a while.
They had no communication.
We knocked out all that stuff.
So they're disarrayed.
They're not motivated.
And so you drop these leaflets on them to try to coerce them, to come over to your side.
And then on the top left, when you see where he's on the left-hand side of that particular leaflet, it shows them all sitting around eating, having a good time.
And then it shows this Iraqi, hey, you can come join us.
The explanation on these is to hold it in the air if you ever see one, to hold that thing in the air and we'll know you want to quit.
We know you want to give up.
And it shows him how he's explained to him that there's a Saudi soldier talking to the Iraqi soldier, hey, hold it in the air and come over and join us to eat.
And then on the bottom left one, it shows an Iraqi tank getting hit by a stealth.
I don't know if you can really see it, but it's like an invisible jet there on the left-hand side right above the tank.
And then it shows our
Superior tanks and a superior helicopter just destroying their tanks at will.
And then the top right, of course, that's Saddam himself, you know, surrounded by, you know, all these different guns on a broken tank.
You know, showing he just doesn't have a chance.
And then the bottom right one, that's all the countries that are against you.
You know, this is all our countries.
We have, you have Saddam, and he's got nothing.
You know, basically that's...
The psychological warfare, trying to get untrained, or not, most of them untrained, unmotivated troops to realize you're fighting a lost cause, don't die for it.
Did you find that they were having an effect?
Oh, they had a big effect.
Oh, yeah.
They'd come up with two or three little things in their hands, just waving them.
You know, they just found it meaningful.
You got guys of handfuls of them just showing them to everybody.
And, yeah, those were very effective.
And they're very effective against people who just, their morale is low.
I mean, it's a motivator for them, like, I'm not dying for this.
And look at these.
They said they're going to treat us good.
And we did.
We treated them very well.
All those POWs that we had, every one of them got mills, sometimes our own mills.
You know, if we had meals in our backpack, you know, we didn't have enough to feed all of them, and we had, we would have to take our own out and hand it to them, you know, and feed them.
And so they got treated very well, you know.
I asked you if you were scared, and you said that most of your fright had to do with the buildup before you got there.
Right, the anxiety, because at one point, there's a lot of rumors floating around.
You're going, you're not going.
We'd have everything built up, and then all of a sudden, you're not going.
And then you start hearing the news all the time.
At the time, we were in Oklahoma, so we saw the news nightly about how he's going to use gas and how this.
And he did.
He had the largest army in the Arab world.
And when that happens, you know, all the anxiety is building up, you know, and you just, you know, you were kind of scared then.
But, and it was, I don't know if it's, you know, if it's the same for everybody, but the minute I got in country, I had no more fear at all.
And, you know, it's not that I'm a tough guy and I'm not afraid.
It just went away.
I just, I felt like this is where I need to be, and I felt comfortable over there, and I felt comfortable in whatever I had to do.
And you had adrenaline, but it's different from fear.
You know, I think the fear build up,
was the worst, and then once I got over there, I wasn't, it was just adrenaline, and I was ready to, actually, it was the most fun I ever had in the Marine Corps was during that time, and I don't like war or anything, but it was, it was watching the Marine Corps work or what it's supposed to do, and it's really amazing what it can do.
Did you all have the perception at the time that this was not going to last long, and did that keep your spirits up?
Did you know that this was going to be something that would be relatively a short-lived conflict?
Right.
It's kind of funny, because you ask people their opinion on other Marines, and you get some crazy answers.
Like, I had a Marine Corps officer who was an Aggie, and I like him.
He said, well, the mechanized infantry they got is 48 months.
You know, 48 months?
That's a long time.
But I was just...
I started thinking about myself.
I was thinking air superiority.
I kept thinking about that.
I was like, you know, if you don't have the air, I mean, you don't really have anything.
I mean, you need air.
You need people to protect your people.
You need people to go out and hit the other people's troops and armor and everything like that.
I really thought...
I said, I didn't think it was going to be that long because I thought that we could really do a lot of damage to him.
And they didn't have a Navy.
We could bring our battleships right into the Persian Gulf and then shoot 16-inch guns on them at any time we wanted.
And we could bomb them at any time we wanted from the air.
And I really didn't think it was going to last that long.
I didn't know how long, but not anywhere close to 48 months.
I thought that was way too long.
Let's take a look at some of the things that you brought today, some of the artifacts that you brought with you.
I'm going to reach down here in front of our camera and give that to you and hold that up.
This is an Iraqi helmet.
I got this out of it in a tank.
It's just the liner, though.
I mean, this is kind of what our guys had in World War II.
You know, you had this and you put the steel pot on this.
Well, they just were wearing the liners.
You know, and a lot of the troops just had the liners.
You know, they're not well...
They didn't have the best of gear.
And I got this off, I think, a T-55 Russian tank.
And it was just in there, and I just grabbed it.
I feel like we're show and tell.
This is a gas mask, Iraqi gas mask.
Probably Russian, too.
A lot of their equipment was Russian.
That's just an Iraqi gas mask.
The filter actually goes right here.
And what's kind of interesting about this, our gas mask, we actually had a nozzle you could pull down, and you could put your canteen into it, and you could drink water if you had to wear this.
And I don't see that on these.
So if you ever got thirsty, it'd probably be a long time until you got out of the area that's contaminated.
If you were thirsty, you'd probably have to wait a long time.
All right.
And this is just, you know, bandoliers, Iraqi bandoliers.
There's a number.
I think that's the number five in Arabic.
I'm not sure.
H harness.
This is what they wear on their back, and they can, you know, carry their ammo around in it.
stuff like this that's kind of how it goes like that and then this is just a backpack some sort and has somebody's name on it there a couple guys got scratched off I don't know what that means but you know this is all Iraqi gear this is just stuff we got off the POWs you know here's some cigarettes
Yeah, show those.
Those are Iraqi cigarettes?
Iraqi cigarettes.
Or, you know, Arabic in the Arab world, I'm not sure.
But it's funny because on the back here it says Virginia blended tobacco.
But this is what they were all smoking.
But we were helping them calm the nerves.
Yeah, I guess.
And then this is a tank manual.
for a T-55 tank, that one I got off.
It's all in Arabic, you know, just sitting there inside of the case.
And then I asked an Iraqi, I had him over there and asked him what this was, you know, that Ali.
Yeah, sort of hold it there.
There you go.
You know, I saw the planes on it, and then I turned around, and I saw this on it, and I was like, hey, what is this?
And he opened it up, and he was looking at it, and he was reading it to himself, and then he goes, oh, this is directions to a party.
Somebody was having a party, and this was directions to it, and I thought it was maybe something neat, but just somebody was having an officer's party, and...
That was the invitation.
I got that at the Kuwait airport, actually.
We liberated the Kuwait airport.
That's where we went in, Delbo, Kuwait, and went into the airport, and that's where I got most of the stuff, actually.
I see.
You told me earlier that your training in Hawaii really was what sort of told you a whole lot about what the Marine Corps was all about.
And then six weeks later, after the conflict was over, after the Persian Gulf War was over, what in your mind are the Marines all about, other than I know you're proud to be one?
Yeah, it is different.
It's a very small branch.
You know, the Army has, you know, what, 800,000 strong, Navy probably about 800,000 strong, and Marine Corps is right around 200,000.
I think the Air Force is probably 400,000 to 500,000.
That's the numbers when I was in.
It was close to that.
And they're very small as far as, you know, how many officers they have per enlisted.
So they're not officer top heavy.
And they're more about light infantry.
They're more about that's what they are.
Not a whole lot of mechanized infantry in the Marine Corps.
They have it, but it's not as big as the Army, the 3rd ID and all those guys, and it's huge.
And it's just a different mentality, and I'm not taking anything away from any of the services because they're all great.
Our services are the best in the world, but the Marine Corps does have a different mentality, and it's hard to explain.
It's like Aggieland.
You can't explain it.
You just have to be...
Same thing with the Marine Corps.
It's just a lot of history.
They really, when we went to boot camp, the history is very big to them.
And they do really drill the history into you.
And, you know, it's like they say, when you become one, it's like somebody opened up your chest and they take that eagle wheel of an anchor, which is that, you know, our emblem, and they tattoo it right on your heart.
And that's the way you feel.
I mean, that's the way you really feel.
It's just a spirit of corps, you know, simplified LSS.
And it really means something to them.
And me.
You bet.
As well it should.
After President Bush declared the ceasefire, you had to hang around for about three more weeks.
Oh, yeah.
Over there before you got to come home.
Right.
As I say, we were coming back down the road, you know, and they called a ceasefire, and we're watching all the Red A. There's guys out there capping those wells and everything.
we come back and we're sitting there waiting to go home and then as you see the guys who were there the longest got to go home first and that's how it should work and so we remember we got there in country just two days before it started so we're sitting there and sitting there and sitting there and then you know as it goes by you know marines look for things to do i mean at one point they had a full contact you know um football game going until somebody broke a finger and somebody's ear got halfway tore off and they colonel said no no more of that then they had a smoker match you know the boxing matches and then
He halted that, and they were just looking for things to do.
And the food got to be where it was three meals a day of either veal or a hot dog, and maybe some corn or whatever.
They just, basically all supplies had been taken away, and it was just limited stuff there.
And finally we got to get on the plane.
It was a TWA plane.
Right.
Which is kind of funny because, you know, it's always talking about, you know, no weapons on a plane.
And we are putting in overhead storage, putting M-16s and M-60s and all that other stuff.
There's a whole lot more to the story of you coming home and the long, long trip to Hawaii.
But unfortunately we're out of town.
There's so much more to tell.
But first off and most important is thank you for your service, Randy, and thank you for being here.
Thank you.
Thank you for what you're doing.
I think it's great.
Thank you, Randy South.
Operation Desert Storm lasted just six weeks at a cost of 148 servicemen and women's lives.
So perhaps it will be little noted in our grandchildren's history books lost somewhere between Vietnam and 9-11.
Nonetheless, more than a half million United States troops risked their lives that winter more than 14 years ago, and we salute them all.
Please thank Yvette today.
For Randy South, I'm Tom Turbiville.
Please join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.